Okay, so I just want to show you a plot.
Here I created a plot,
plot, empty cars wait.
Empty cars miles per gallon,
xlab = weight, ylab = MPG.
Let's go ahead and show it.
Sorry, there we go.
Okay, there it is.
Well I kind of don't want the code,
like most often when you show a plot,
you don't want to echo the code.
So why don't I put echo = FALSE and
then go ahead and re-run it.
That looks much better.
There's a bunch of other figure options in
Nitter, so you can play around with those.
For example, fig.align.
Probably center.
Okay.
fig, yeah we can put a caption.
Let's say My AWESOME figure.
Okay and
then let's just show you how this looks.
Yeah, see there's your figure caption and
so on.
So go through some of the options and
play around with them.
There's options for controlling the height
and width of the figure and so on.
So the last thing I want to talk
about is publishing your slides.
So as soon as you nit it,
when you type nit HTML it creates
a file in your directory.
So for
example these slides are briansSlides.Rmd
with the file extension standing for
R markdown.
Okay, it creates a Brian's
slides .html file.
So if you click on that you'll bring it up
this presentation in a browser
not in out studio browser window.
And in fact you can make it easier
just by clicking on opening browser
here in the our studio preview window.
Publish will publish it in R pubs,
which is one of a couple of
ways to publish it online.
You could also put it in
a Drop Box public folder and
just like you can kind of publish
web pages in a Drop Box folder.
But I think probably my favorite
way to publish it is in GitHub.
So I wanted to show you a couple
things about GitHub real quick.
So these slides, I got them,
well actually, I'm sorry.
These slides, these temporary slides I'm
working on, I haven't pushed up to GitHub.
So why don't we look at the slides for
the lecture, which are in
Shaun Cross' GitHub Repository.
I'll show you this in a second,
more closely.
But, this is just an R Markdown file,
and the associated HTML files
pushed up into GitHub, okay.
So, let's look at those.
Okay.
So, here is the developing
data products course page
under slides in seankross's GitHub repo.
So, I think I want R Markdown right there,
okay.
Now, here's the R Markdown phone.
First thing I want to point out, if you
click on this in GitHub it does a lot of
the formatting for you, it recognizes
that it's in R Markdown document, and
it does a lot of formatting ahead for you.
It's not going to run the code of course,
but it does a lot of formatting, so you
can see what the bullets and the various
points are going to look like, okay?
Which is nice, so often when I'm
reading some of Sean's edit,
I'll look just directly
at his R_Markdown file.
Okay, now let's click on the HTML file.
There we go.
Now notice that it does
not render the HTML file.
It is showing you the raw HTML.
Okay, now for the HTML to be rendered,
there's a bunch of
different ways to do this.
In fact, there's a Chrome add on and
a Firefox add on that will go ahead and
do this for you.
But Sean's published
this via GitHub pages.
And what this means is,
he has a branch called gh-pages.
Usually it requires a node jackal
file in the root directory of your
GitHub pages but I've noticed you didn't
have that so maybe that isn't necessary.
But now if I want to see it, it just means
you are just mildly changing the URL and
you can see it, okay?
But the important thing is you have
to have a branch called gh-pages,
that's the most important part.
And by the way I find it kind of
annoying to have a gh-pages branch and
then a master branch, and
I think Sean does too obviously.
So he just deleted the master branch,
okay, so
GitHub pages in a sense
is his master branch.
Okay, so
if we look up here on the address we
have github.com/seankross
which is his user name.
What I want is Sean Kross.github.io.
Okay, so it's user name.github.io,
and then slides, and then blob and
gh-pages are just internal things for
GitHub, so we want to get rid of those.
And then we want just
a path to the html file.
So in In Sean Krosses GItHub
the repository it's in the repose slides.
The subdirectory Developing Data Products,
the subdirectory R Markdown and in
the file R Markdown.html, and then notice
these slides are now hosted on GitHub.
And this is an extremely convenient way,
especially for
most of us that work in data science
because we're usually pushing stuff up
back and forth to GitHub all the time.
For me, personally, all my course stuff
I just push up to public, GitHub repost.
All my private researchy stuff, I push
up to private, GitHub repost and so on.
So this is a very clean way to work for
those of us that are already
working in GitHub.
Okay, so after doing this,
I would like everyone to
try to create a figure
in your presentation.
I'd like you to play around
with the figure options.
I'd like you to try and
publish it to GitHub.
Read up on GitHub pages if you're having
some trouble or publish it to our pubs if
you want that’s another option just click
on the publish button in our studio and
see how that works that’s fairly
self-explanatory and I would also like you
to verify that the HTML file gets
created into your directory.
Click on that and
see how you can host on you computer and
look at it on your computer so that way
you can always visualize it if you're
working on an airplane or
something like that.
But most important I think hosting it on
GitHub is probably the most technically
irritating of all the things I have talked
about, so go ahead and try doing that,
just so this way you can always publicly
host your repositories in a way that's
convenient, that probably already fits
into your work flow, to begin with.
Well that's enough about R Markdown,
I think, to suit our needs for this class.
When you develop your project,
you're actually going to create a pitch
in R Markdown, and you'll hopefully
host it on GitHub or something, so
that we can all look at it and
see that your project is really awesome.
All right.
Thanks a lot for listening, and
we'll see you in the next lesson.